Math Command for Tandy MC-10 and TRS-80 Color Computer

Welcome to Math Command, the arithmetic action game. Written in 100% BASIC, 
it will run on any Model Color Computer, including the MC-10, and requires
only 4 kilobytes of RAM.

Loading the Game: At the READY prompt, type CLOAD "MATHCMD" if loading 
from tape or LOAD "MATHCMD" if loading from disk, then press ENTER. 
To load in Virtual MC-10, either use the CLOAD command then menu option 
File -> Play Cassette File.. and select file "MATHCMD.C10" or use menu 
option File -> Quick Type... and select file "mathcmd.bas". 
To load in XRoar, use menu option File -> Run... and select file 
"mathcmd.bas", use menu option File -> Cassette -> Input Tape... and 
select file "MATHCMD.CAS" then type CLOAD "MATHCMD" and press ENTER, 
or use menu option Drive 1 -> Insert Disk... and select file "mathcmd.dsk"
then type RUN "MATHCMD" and press ENTER.

Starting the Game: At the OK prompt, type RUN and press ENTER.

The Keyboard: All input is case-insensitive, so the SHIFT key does not need 
to be pressed. 

Startup Screen: Choose which type of math facts to practice (addition, 
subtraction, multiplication, or division) by pressing the appropriate key, 
or press the "Q" key to quit. 

Playing the Game: At the beginning of each level, four cities appear at the 
bottom of the screen. A math missile will then begin to fall towards one of 
the cities. To destroy the missile, type the correct answer to the math 
problem.

Entering the Answer: As you type, the answer will appear in the missile 
base at the bottom of the screen. As soon as the correct answer appears,
the math missile will be destroyed. To clear the answer press the space 
bar. If an incorrect answer is entered, the answer is automatically clear.

Losing Cities: If a math missile falls all the way to the bottom of the 
screen without the correct answer being entered, the city will be destroyed. 
If all cities are destroyed, the game ends.

Ending a Level: A level ends after twenty-five math missiles have dropped. 
The remaining cities are counted, and the next level begins. The math 
missiles fall progressively faster in each level.

Exiting the game: You may quit the current game at any time by pressing the 
"Q" key.

Scoring: Each time a missile is destroyed, points are awarded based on the 
difficulty and the level. In addition, bonus points ar awarded for each city 
remaining at the end of each level.

File List:

  mathcmd.bas   Program in ASCII Format for Quick Type
  mathcmd.txt   Documentation
  MATHCMD.C10   Cassette image for MC-10 Emulator
  MATHCMD.CAS   Cassette image for Color Computer Emulator
  mathcmd.dsk   Disk image for Color Computer Emulator

Author's Notes:

I've seen a number of math facts games over the years, but none of them 
appealed to me until I saw "Tux of Math Command," an open source game based 
loosely on "Missile Command."

There were a couple of things I didn't like about "Tux of Math Command," 
however: it requires a fairly modern processor, and there wasn't an easy 
way to practice a single type of fact.

The original version of Math Command was written in February of 2010 for the 
Tandy Model 100 and 102 and submitted to the 27th Anniversary Model 100 
Programming Contest on the club100.org web site. In 2020, I ported the gane 
to other microcomputers, first the Commodore VIC-20, then the Tandy MC-10 and
Color Computer.

To ensure compatability with both Color BASIC and Microcolor BASIC along 
with various emulators, there are several conventions that were followed in
the "mathcmd.bas" file. First, the Quick Type option in Virtual MC-10 does 
not support mixed upper and lower case, so all text in the program is upper
case. Second, while the MC-10 allows entry of block graphics characters from
the keyboard, the Color Computer does not, thus all block graphics are 
encoded using the CHR$() function. Third, Virtual MC-10's Quic Type option
does not support the square bracket characters "[" and "]" because they are
not on the MC-10 keyboard, therefore they printed using CHR$(91) and CHR$(93),
respectively.


-Curtis F Kaylor, 3 Feb 2020
